Add Educators & Students page (#7483)
microsoft/vscode-docs: docs/getstarted/educators-and-students.md

---
Order: 6
Area: getstarted
TOCTitle: Educators & Students
ContentId: 33b73b13-3d85-49d9-95b2-92b75137818c
PageTitle: Visual Studio Code for Educators and Students
DateApproved: 08/01/2024
MetaDescription: Resources for educators and students to get started with Visual Studio Code.
---
# VS Code for Educators and Students

> Welcome to the world of Visual Studio Code for Educators and Students! In this article, we introduce you to various tools, extension packs, and learning paths that can help you get started with coding in Visual Studio Code. Whether you're an educator looking for resources to enhance your classroom experience, or a student eager to learn and explore coding, this guide is here to help you get started.

Reviewer: Is there a reason Educators and Students are capitalized? This sounds like a new product name? Think we could either remove `for Educators and Students` completely or reword this a bit.

```suggestion
Welcome to the world of using Visual Studio Code as an educator or student! In this article, we introduce you to various tools, extension packs, and learning paths that can help you get started with coding in Visual Studio Code. Whether you're an educator looking for resources to enhance your classroom experience, or a student eager to learn and explore coding, this guide is here to help you get started.
```

Author: The capitalization was not on purpose.

Essentially, a "code tour" is a series of interactive steps, each of which are associated with a specific directory, or file/line, and include a description of the respective code. Tours can either be checked into a repo to share with source control, or exported to a "tour file", which enables anyone to replay the same tour, without having to clone any code!

In the following video, an instructor is removing existing instructions embedded in the source code and replacing them with CodeTour steps. Students can then jump from step to step in the large game development project.

![CodeTour in a sample assignment](images/educators-and-students/codetour-example-lesson.gif)

#### Getting started with CodeTour

To start using CodeTour, you need to download the CodeTour extension from the VS Code [Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/vscode).

![CodeTour extension in Extension Marketplace](images/educators-and-students/codetour-extension-marketplace.png)

To use CodeTour effectively in your classroom, we recommend following the guidelines in the [CodeTour repository](https://github.com/microsoft/codetour#getting-started).

> ## Collaborate with Live Share

Reviewer: I didn't expect this to be the same level of header as `Educator resources`. If it's a `##` level header because it's fitting for both educators and students (and we don't want to just put it in one), should it be put in its own section like `## General learning resources` or `Tools for both educators and students`, which we could then expand over time to include other tools fitting for both audiences?

Author: Good suggestion. I'll add an H2.

### What is Live Share?

[Live Share](https://learn.microsoft.com/visualstudio/liveshare) enables you to quickly collaborate with a friend, classmate, or professor on the same code without the need to sync code or to configure the same development tools, settings, or environment.

When it comes to Live Share, seeing is believing. Check out this video to see Live Share in action:

<iframe src="https://youtube.com/embed/A2ceblXTBBc?rel=0&amp;disablekb=0&amp;modestbranding=1&amp;showinfo=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen title="Collaborate with Live Share"></iframe>

>**Note**: The video mentions the deprecated Live Share Extension Pack and Live Share Audio extension. To follow along with the video, you only need to install the [Live Share](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=MS-vsliveshare.vsliveshare) extension.

> When you share a collaborative session, the person you're working with sees the context of the workspace in their editor. This means your classmate can read the code you shared without having to clone a repo or install any dependencies your code relies on. They can help you with your code in the Visual Studio Code environment that's familiar to them.

Reviewer: As a user potentially newer to VS Code, I'm not sure I know what is included in / meant by `the context of the workspace in their editor`.

Author: I'll rephrase this section.

Author: I made some changes to this section. What do you think?

Reviewer: Looks great!

![Live Share extension](images/educators-and-students/live-share-extension.png)

This extension includes everything you need to start collaboratively editing and debugging in real time. This provides you and your team/class with a one-step installation, in order to begin pair programming, performing remote code reviews, driving interactive lectures, and more, without needing to leave Visual Studio Code.

Once you log into your GitHub account, you can see the Live Share icon in the Activity Bar.

![Live Share icon in the Activity Bar](images/educators-and-students/liveshare-icon.png)

#### Starting a Live Share session

If you select **Start Collaboration session** from the Session Details menu, an invitation link to your session is automatically copied to your clipboard. You can share this link with anyone you'd like to collaborate with, as long as they also have VS Code and the Live Share extension installed.

![Live Share invitation](images/educators-and-students/liveshare-invitation.png)

When your classmate joins the session, you get a notification, and see their name come up under Participants.

![Live Share joined](images/educators-and-students/liveshare-joined.png)

> #### Joining a Live Share session

Reviewer: Should we add a couple sentences on using Live Share via vscode.dev? That way folks can collaborate even if they don't want to / can't install VS Code Desktop.

Author: Good idea!

If you select **Join Collaboration session** from the Session Details menu, you're able to enter the URL you received.

![Joining a Live Share session](images/educators-and-students/liveshare-join-session.png)

You should be able to see and interact with your classmate's code on your screen!

> ## Free student lessons

Reviewer: I expected this to be `## Student resources`, to match the `## Educator resources` header above.

> ### Get started with VS Code

Reviewer: If we do choose to update the above header to `## Student resources`, these next few could be renamed to also be consistent, like `### Lessons for...` or `### Getting started with VS Code lessons`
